Hercules is still fast asleep motoring
up the Rondon River he's heading to the
islands that are home to the bigger
orangutans because of his disability he
can't climb it wouldn't be safe to leave
him here all year round the river can
rise dramatically during the rainy
season and he could easily drown
but with the river lo loner can
undertake the Herculean task of moving
him from his cage to the islands
it offers him a taste of the freedom and
dignity that 16 years in captivity have
denied him wo just to get in the shade
he can recover from the effects of the
anesthetic perhaps you remember his
previous holidays here
well happiness is still trying to wake
up it's probably going to look be a
little while they you know sometimes
they tend to take it as a nice nap he's
been here before obviously he comes out
here during the summers you know as long
as the water stays down like this this
is just perfect
he's got his Beach you know he does like
give me a beach fun last year wall was
find him sitting out at the edge of the
river playing by the water and was
really lovely Hercules will never go
back to the wild but it's not difficult
to imagine what a huge improvement life
here on the island is compared to one in
a cage someone sweet you know thanks to
loners unyielding Drive and dedication
every one of over 600 orangutangs at the
centre are given the best possible life
she can provide from the smallest being
given the skills he'll need in the wild
to the largest given back just a small
piece of the life that was taken from
him you have a good time now there's
lots of girls here for you yeah I'll
come and see you in a few days
you